Do you want to live a tepid life, A warm life,
a hot life or a burning hot life
or that kind of life that will evaporate?
This is a choice.
Those who live at Capital Life
will wake up late,
eat on time, sleep on time.
They have all the pieces of life in place.
Those who live a life which burns
wake up always before the sun.
We dont know when the food is,
we dont know when the sleep is.
Nothing is in place.
All
pleasures of life
have been robbed of us.
Then why this madness?
Is this in denial of life?
Life happens in many different ways. So if you see a mango
tree,
if you buy it into the fruit,
that is much
sweetness.
If you smell the flower, there is some fragrance.
If you eat the leaf,
there is some bitterness, but still there is nourishment.
If you bite into the bark,
no juice,
no sweetness,
no fragrance.
But if you bite into the root,
you will get mud and manure in your mouth.
But if you buy it into the root,
then root means that which decides everything.
If you bite into the root of this life,
then you decide
what is the nature of your experience,
where and how this life goes,
to what purpose.
You determine the destiny of your existence.
Once you know the pleasure
and the ecstasy of determining
you
destiny in every possible way,
then eating the fruit and smelling the flower doesn't mean
much.
Not that
we cannot enjoy the fruit, we can.
But
when you have access to determine the nature of the
fruit.
So he is this just about power over life?
No.
You either you can leave you. Either you can live at the
surface
or at the root of life.
Living at the root of life
for external viewing looks ugly
or unattractive,
but it determines everything.
It decides whether they should be a fruit or not.
So those who choose
to dig deep into life
may not know,
may not know the pleasures of eating well in the afternoon and
having a sister.
They are all nice things. I know
I have seen other people doing it,
but
all this was OK
if time was not running out.
You could eat as much as you want.
You can sleep as much as you want
if time was not running out.
If you are a limitless amount of time,
all this was OK.
If you have realised
it's a brief amount of time,
then
everything. If you really know that it's sticking away right
now,
not thinking about it, you can really feel it with every
heartbeat your little closer
to it.
If you know this,
then suppose you knew that you are going to die in the next 5
minutes.
Are you that kind? You would like to eat all the different
varieties of mangoes before you go.
Hello.
No, it won't taste good. Believe me,
we are not a goal against mangoes. We are not against the
sweetness of life,
but
it's a very limited amount of time,
so we want to buy it deep into it,
not on the surface.
What determines
the nature of my life?
If I don't take charge of that,
then
time will decide
what should happen to me.
We don't want time to decide the fate of who I am,
because
time is just a
cyclical process
just going on. It rolls for everybody. It rolls for
everything.
Your sense of time
may be very different from let's say
what is the most popular creature here. Lets say a
mosquito
its only creature for which you are willing to shed your blood
blood.
So,
so
mosquitoes life.
There's some relationship between mosquitoes and human
beings.
Its a 28 day life cycle.
You understand what I'm saying?
Somehow our life cycles are also built in 28 days cycles.
Today is an important day
because today Indian space scientists are sending
AH
a rower
for a vehicle which will land on the moon.
Today is Chandrayaan is going to be launched,
so I couldn't stay away from that. I'm going for that and
coming back in the night.
So the cycles of the moon,
das cycles of our mothers, bodies and mosquitoes. Somehow,
I don't know how they fell into that cycle, but
somehow they got it. So we all bleed for them somewhere over
the other.
So how
a creature whose life cycle is
28 days, how he views time and
how you view time may be very different,
but his life is 28 days. In 28
days he finds fulfillment
because he is clearly programmed.
He asked to
land softly on you
right now. This is the challenge for the scientists.
They want to make a soft landing on the moon.
Yes,
in the past people only. I think
only one country has made a soft landing. All others have hard
landings.
The Indian scientists are trying for a soft landing. So they have
chosen this day because of variety of calculations.
So they want to make a soft landing. A mosquito must have a
soft landing. If it is a hard landing,
it must make such a soft landing that you don't feel it.
Hello.
Very important.
He makes a soft landing upon you
and
takes his nourishment from you,
breeds, multiplies and eyes.
He is not aspiring for anything else,
so his life is totally fulfilled in 28 days.
So for him he has to just run the cycle.
He just has to be quick enough not to get smashed by you. His
life is fulfilled. So
hey has a certain perspective of time.
His time, his sense of time is very properly built into system.
He knows
its coming for him. He knows he has to get his nourishment. He
knows he has to breed. He knows his his life will get over.
See just what a mosquito knows
to make. You know
how much struggle
he knows or not?
He knows that its getting over time is getting over. He knows
that
probably if you had only 28 days to live, you would also know.
But
with such a big brain, we thought
even if we give you 100 years, you would know
this is the trust
that nature had in you.
These cycles
of time
are not just on the clock,
not just in the calendar, there in the body.
Our idea of time. Right now, all calculations that we do are
related to the cycles
of what happens in this planetary system.
If the planet rotates besides a day,
if the moon goes around the planet, we say it's a month. If
the planet goes around the sun, we say it's a year
the sub menu.
Otherwise we have no other way to measure time.
Similar cycles which are happening to the solar system
are the planet is happening to us because everything. Just
everything
in this body is planet.
It is not divorced from the planet.
It is very much intune with the planet.
Only your mind may be divorced
from the planet. You know this can happen. You can be in the
family and still be divorced.
Hello.
I'm just being nasty. It's OK.
So
these cycles
or built into our system too.
If you know something about
the Geo dynamics of this planet,
you know that
the length of the equator
or the circumference of this planet at the equator,
you know the planet is around
because the various kinds of people I dont know from which
planet.
So the circumference of this planet at the equator is 21,600
nautical miles.
That is the number of breaths that you take per day. If you
are breathing an average of 15
breaths per minute,
you will take 21,600 breaths per day.
In fact,
every mile is seen
as a breath of the planet.
Every nautical mile
and your breath is related to that. If you breathe this way,
your
if you are
doing your sadhana,
how many of you promptly do it?
Every pournami.
So the number of breaths that you breathe is naturally
will be aligned
to
15 per minute.
If you do your sadhana
ah
everyday
it will get aligned that way.
If it gets a lion, what is happening within the system is
you are hot beat also gets aligned to that.
Because of this, you are In Sync
with the way the elements of this planet function. Because
the same elements of functioning within you, there is a certain
coherence between the 2.
With this, you will live healthy and
reasonably balanced within yourself.
If you
if you happen to reduce your breath to 12 per minute,
it will become 17,280 per day.
This means
you kind of crushed time.
How does breathing crushed time as such
if you let us say if you are breathing 15 breaths per minute
and live for 60 years,
in 60 years you would do
12,96,000 breaths
in 60 years time.
But if you make it into 12
breaths per minute
now, you will be doing the same number of breaths in 75 years.
It can also translate itself as the number of years that one
lives. But more than that, in terms of life potential, What
somebody will do in 675 years, you will do it in 60 years.
If you make it into 9,
it will become
12,960 per day.
That means what is 60 years for somebody will become 100 years
for you.
If you make it 6,
then it will become 8640 per day.
That means what is 60 years for somebody, is 150 years for you.
Either you can choose
to enhance your lifespan
or you can choose
to burn heavier
and live a more intense life.
You can burn it all ends
because you are not concerned about how long.
You are concerned about
how profoundly you burn,
how intensely you burn.
This can translate into action
or this can translate into profoundness of experience.
Our fundamental concern is profoundness of experience.
What would happen to me in 150
years? If it can be compressed
to 60 years,
then the intensity of experience is big.
In a way,
every dimension of spiritual process means just this.
It is to put you on a Fast forward.
On one level,
if we want to put your
karmic substance and past forward,
you have to slow down the body
otherwise you will go quick.
This is the thing,
and This is why devotees die early.
Just
because a genuine devotee, not
those who pray morning and evening
for safety, not the insurance devotees.
Devotee who burns
will die soon
simply because he burns up the karmic material, but he does not
slow down the body.
If you Fast forward other dimensions of who you are, you
need to slow down the body.
It's very important.
So this is what sadhana is about. On one level,
physiologically you are trying to slow down all other
dimensions. You want Fast forward.
This traditionally is called Yatana.
When it happens very intensely, we call it bhairavi yatana. No,
I'm not talking about marriage.
Yatana means a certain amount of struggle, a certain amount of
intensity of struggle.
Because you put everything on Fast forward.
If it went slow, you wouldn't feel it so much. Because now
everything is on Fast forward. Everything is intense. Pleasure
is intense. Pain is intense. Joe is intense. Everything is
intense.
For this it is best to slow down the system physical system.
Then it will become very productive.
It will become a tremendous potential
circular because you slow down the physiological system to
accommodate
a very intense dense.
If you want to dance very intensely, the stage must be
stable,
otherwise
you may go through.